README.md, before:

# RedWoodJS
[Redwood Quick Start](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/quick-start)   
[RedwoodJS Tutorial](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/tutorial/foreword)    
[GitHub](https://github.com/redwoodjs/redwood)  

### Introduction
__Create new application__  
To create a new RedWood application
```bash
$ yarn create redwood-app
```
Follow the prompt.

Alternatively, you can do
```bash
$ yarn create redwood-app my-redwood-app --typescript
$ cd my-redwood-app
$ yarn install
$ yarn redwood dev
```  

__Generate a Scaffolding__  
We can generate a set components required for a CRUD operation on a model using the  `scaffold` command.
```bash
$ yarn redwood generate scaffold post
```  
This will create all the pages, components, and services necessary to perform all CRUD actions on our _Post_ model.  
The files generated are described in the table below.  

File Description      | File Path
----------------------|------------
GraphQL SDL           | `api/src/graphql/posts.sdl.ts`
Scenarios             | `api/src/services/posts/posts.scenarios.ts`
Test Suite            | `api/src/services/posts/posts.test.ts`
Resolvers             | `api/src/services/posts/posts.ts`
CSS                   | `web/src/scaffold.css`
Update Component      | `web/src/components/Post/EditPostCell/EditPostCell.tsx`
Create Component      | `web/src/components/Post/NewPost/NewPost.tsx`
Single Model Component| `web/src/components/Post/Post/Post.tsx`
Model Collection Component | `web/src/components/Post/Posts/Posts.tsx`
Cell Component        | `web/src/components/Post/PostCell/PostCell.tsx`
Cell Component        | `/web/src/components/Post/PostsCell/PostsCell.tsx`
Form Component        | `web/src/components/Post/PostForm/PostForm.tsx`
Scaffolding Layout    | `web/src/layouts/ScaffoldLayout/ScaffoldLayout.tsx`
Formatter test        | `web/src/lib/formatters.test.tsx`
Formatter Component   | `web/src/lib/formatters.tsx`
Update Page           | `src/pages/Post/EditPostPage/EditPostPage.tsx`
Create Page           | `web/src/pages/Post/NewPostPage/NewPostPage.tsx`
Current Model Page    | `web/src/pages/Post/PostPage/PostPage.tsx`
Model Collection Page | `web/src/pages/Post/PostsPage/PostsPage.tsx`


The following files are updated in the process
1. `web/src/App.tsx`
2. `web/src/Routes.tsx`

Note that the package `humanize-string` is also installed in the scaffolding operation.    

__Basic Redwood CLI Operations__

Operation            | Command
---------------------|--------
Start Dev Server     | `yarn redwood dev`
Run Tests            | `yarn redwood test`
Genertate and run prisma migration | `yarn redwood prisma migrate dev`
Generate a layout    | `yarn redwood generate layout blog`
Generate a page      | `yarn redwood generate page home /`
Generate a component | `yarn redwood generate component article`
Generate scaffolding | `yarn redwood generate scaffold post`
Generate a cell      | `yarn redwood generate cell name`
Generate types       | `yarn redwood generate types`
Generate SDL & service | `yarn redwood generate sdl Contact`
Access Deploy Options| `yarn redwood generate setup deploy --help`
Access Auth Options  | `yarn redwood generate setup auth --help`
Access Style Options | `yarn redwood generate setup ui --help`  
To upgrade your app  | `yarn redwood upgrade`
Add package the web workspace | `yarn workspace web add marked`
Add package the api workspace | `yarn workspace api add better-fs`

__Story Book__  

__Cell__  
Cells are a declarative approach to data fetching and one of Redwood's signature modes of abstraction.  
While it might seem like there's a lot of magic involved, all a Cell really does is execute a GraphQL query and manage its lifecycle.  
To generate a cell, use the `generate cell` command
```bash
$ yarn rw generate cell name
```
This creates a directory named _[name]Cell_ in _web/src/components_ with four files:
1. `<name>Cell.js`
2. `<name>Cell.test.js`
3. `<name>Cell.stories.js`
4. `<name>Cell.mock.js`.  

If you want a Cell that renders a list instead of a Single model, you can use the plural name for the model
```bash
$ yarn rw generate cell names
```
Or use the `--list` flag for words which plural is same as singular
```bash
$ yarn rw generate cell fish
```
[Learn More](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/cells)

### Chapter 1: Getting Started
Creating your first page
```bash
$ yarn redwood generate page home /
```

Creating your second page
```bash
$ yarn redwood generate page about
```
Creating a layout
```bash
$ yarn redwood g layout blog
```

### Chapter 2: Getting Dynamic
__Setting up database schema__  
1. Create a database using your database  
```bash
create database red_blog;
```
2. Update _DATABASE_URL_ variable in your _.env_ file
```
DATABASE_URL="mysql://username:password@localhost:3306/red_blog"
```
3. Add a Table definition to _schema.prisma_ file
```sql
model Post {
    id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
    title     String
    body      String
    createdAt DateTime @default(now())
}
```
4. Run the migration
```bash
$ yarn rw prisma migrate dev
```
You will be prompted for the name of the migration, and you can write "_create post_" without the quotes.  

5. Fireup Prisma Studio  
Using npx directly:
```bash
$ npx prisma studio --schema api/db/schema.prisma
```
Alternatively, you can use _redwood_  
```bash
$ yarn rw prisma studio
```

__Generate Scaffolding__  
To create all the pages, components and services necessary to perform all CRUD actions on our posts table:
```bash
$ yarn rw g scaffold post
```

__Generate a cell__  
```bash
$ yarn rw g cell Articles
```
All of the props you give to the cell will be automatically available as props in the render components.
Only the ones that match the GraphQL variables list will be given to the query.

__Generate types__  
If the dev server was not running at the time a cell was generated, you may need to generate the types separately.
```bash
$ yarn rw g types
```

__Generate a component__  
```bash
$ yarn rw g component Article
```

__Generate SDL and service__  
```bash
$ yarn rw g sdl Contact
```
if you just need a simple read-only SDL, you can skip creating the create/update/delete mutations by passing a flag to the SDL generator like so: 
```bash
$ yarn rw g sdl Contact --no-crud
```

Commit message:

SDL, Service and Servic Side Validation

README.md, after:

# RedWoodJS
[Redwood Quick Start](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/quick-start)   
[RedwoodJS Tutorial](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/tutorial/foreword)    
[GitHub](https://github.com/redwoodjs/redwood)  

### Introduction
__Create new application__  
To create a new RedWood application
```bash
$ yarn create redwood-app
```
Follow the prompt.

Alternatively, you can do
```bash
$ yarn create redwood-app my-redwood-app --typescript
$ cd my-redwood-app
$ yarn install
$ yarn redwood dev
```  

__Generate a Scaffolding__  
We can generate a set components required for a CRUD operation on a model using the  `scaffold` command.
```bash
$ yarn redwood generate scaffold post
```  
This will create all the pages, components, and services necessary to perform all CRUD actions on our _Post_ model.  
The files generated are described in the table below.  

File Description      | File Path
----------------------|------------
GraphQL SDL           | `api/src/graphql/posts.sdl.ts`
Scenarios             | `api/src/services/posts/posts.scenarios.ts`
Test Suite            | `api/src/services/posts/posts.test.ts`
Resolvers             | `api/src/services/posts/posts.ts`
CSS                   | `web/src/scaffold.css`
Update Component      | `web/src/components/Post/EditPostCell/EditPostCell.tsx`
Create Component      | `web/src/components/Post/NewPost/NewPost.tsx`
Single Model Component| `web/src/components/Post/Post/Post.tsx`
Model Collection Component | `web/src/components/Post/Posts/Posts.tsx`
Cell Component        | `web/src/components/Post/PostCell/PostCell.tsx`
Cell Component        | `/web/src/components/Post/PostsCell/PostsCell.tsx`
Form Component        | `web/src/components/Post/PostForm/PostForm.tsx`
Scaffolding Layout    | `web/src/layouts/ScaffoldLayout/ScaffoldLayout.tsx`
Formatter test        | `web/src/lib/formatters.test.tsx`
Formatter Component   | `web/src/lib/formatters.tsx`
Update Page           | `src/pages/Post/EditPostPage/EditPostPage.tsx`
Create Page           | `web/src/pages/Post/NewPostPage/NewPostPage.tsx`
Current Model Page    | `web/src/pages/Post/PostPage/PostPage.tsx`
Model Collection Page | `web/src/pages/Post/PostsPage/PostsPage.tsx`


The following files are updated in the process
1. `web/src/App.tsx`
2. `web/src/Routes.tsx`

Note that the package `humanize-string` is also installed in the scaffolding operation.    

__Basic Redwood CLI Operations__

Operation            | Command
---------------------|--------
Start Dev Server     | `yarn redwood dev`
Run Tests            | `yarn redwood test`
Genertate and run prisma migration | `yarn redwood prisma migrate dev`
Generate a layout    | `yarn redwood generate layout blog`
Generate a page      | `yarn redwood generate page home /`
Generate a component | `yarn redwood generate component article`
Generate scaffolding | `yarn redwood generate scaffold post`
Generate a cell      | `yarn redwood generate cell name`
Generate types       | `yarn redwood generate types`
Generate SDL & service | `yarn redwood generate sdl Contact`
Access Deploy Options| `yarn redwood generate setup deploy --help`
Access Auth Options  | `yarn redwood generate setup auth --help`
Access Style Options | `yarn redwood generate setup ui --help`  
To upgrade your app  | `yarn redwood upgrade`
Add package the web workspace | `yarn workspace web add marked`
Add package the api workspace | `yarn workspace api add better-fs`

__Story Book__  

__Cell__  
Cells are a declarative approach to data fetching and one of Redwood's signature modes of abstraction.  
While it might seem like there's a lot of magic involved, all a Cell really does is execute a GraphQL query and manage its lifecycle.  
To generate a cell, use the `generate cell` command
```bash
$ yarn rw generate cell name
```
This creates a directory named _[name]Cell_ in _web/src/components_ with four files:
1. `<name>Cell.js`
2. `<name>Cell.test.js`
3. `<name>Cell.stories.js`
4. `<name>Cell.mock.js`.  

If you want a Cell that renders a list instead of a Single model, you can use the plural name for the model
```bash
$ yarn rw generate cell names
```
Or use the `--list` flag for words which plural is same as singular
```bash
$ yarn rw generate cell fish
```
[Learn More](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/cells)

### Chapter 1: Getting Started
Creating your first page
```bash
$ yarn redwood generate page home /
```

Creating your second page
```bash
$ yarn redwood generate page about
```
Creating a layout
```bash
$ yarn redwood g layout blog
```

### Chapter 2: Getting Dynamic
__Setting up database schema__  
1. Create a database using your database  
```bash
create database red_blog;
```
2. Update _DATABASE_URL_ variable in your _.env_ file
```
DATABASE_URL="mysql://username:password@localhost:3306/red_blog"
```
3. Add a Table definition to _schema.prisma_ file
```sql
model Post {
    id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
    title     String
    body      String
    createdAt DateTime @default(now())
}
```
4. Run the migration
```bash
$ yarn rw prisma migrate dev
```
You will be prompted for the name of the migration, and you can write "_create post_" without the quotes.  

5. Fireup Prisma Studio  
Using npx directly:
```bash
$ npx prisma studio --schema api/db/schema.prisma
```
Alternatively, you can use _redwood_  
```bash
$ yarn rw prisma studio
```

__Generate Scaffolding__  
To create all the pages, components and services necessary to perform all CRUD actions on our posts table:
```bash
$ yarn rw g scaffold post
```

__Generate a cell__  
```bash
$ yarn rw g cell Articles
```
All of the props you give to the cell will be automatically available as props in the render components.
Only the ones that match the GraphQL variables list will be given to the query.

__Generate types__  
If the dev server was not running at the time a cell was generated, you may need to generate the types separately.
```bash
$ yarn rw g types
```

__Generate a component__  
```bash
$ yarn rw g component Article
```

### Chapter 3: Building Forms

__Generate SDL and service__  
```bash
$ yarn rw g sdl Contact
```
This will create the following files under the api directory:
1. `api/src/graphql/contacts.sdl.ts`
2. `api/src/services/contacts/contacts.ts`

If you just need a simple read-only SDL, you can skip creating the create/update/delete mutations by passing a `--no-crud` flag to the SDL generator like so:
```bash
$ yarn rw g sdl Contact --no-crud
```

__GraphQL Playground__  
There is GraphQL Yoga's GraphiQL, a web-based GUI for GraphQL APIs at `http://localhost:8911/graphql`.    
To learn more about GraphQL Yoga see [GraphQL Yoga Docs](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server/docs)  

__Server side validation__  
GraphQL does some server side validation for you. This is done for example with the required field declaration such is `String!` in an SDL file that adds a constraint that those fields cannot be null as soon as it arrives on the api side.  
In some cases you might need to implement some validation inside in service such as in the case for the format of an email field input.
